 about us 

  Mahajan Hospital was founded in 1969 by Mr. Dinesh Bhansali, Mr. Mahesh Bhansali & family. Through our dedicated efforts towards noble career, we were able to expand our hospital from Mahajan Hospital to Mahajan Super Specialty Hospital, in 2001. Now our hospital is known for multi functionality. At Mahajan Hospital we have set new benchmarks in quality standards in healthcare delivery, by keeping with the tradition of delivering healthcare at par with the best in the world.

  Mahajan Hospitals, Palanpur provides noble healthcare that includes prevention, treatment, rehabilitation and health education for patients, their families and clients by touching their lives. We have a good team of expert doctors who dedicated their life towards society.


  Earlier our hospital was situated at Gurukul, in Memnagar area but now with new infrastructure we have our multi speciality hospital at Vastrapur. With 65 bed capacity at Vastrapur, Ahmedabad and further with a view of a multi speciality hospital, Dr. Vinay Bhomiya has already acquired about more than 6,500 Sq. yard land and more land sourding the exhisting structure of Sanjivani Super Mahajan Hospital is in the process of accquring.

  ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY


  Our Orthopedic surgeons use both surgical and non-surgical means to treat musculoskeletal trauma, sports injuries, degenerative diseases, infections, tumors, and congenital conditions.

We provide overall Orthopaedic surgery facilities and work dejectedly that the patient is recovered soon. Our doctors are committed to the use of advance technology related to the care of musculoskeletal system.

Our department of Orthopaedic surgery continuously plans to expand our clinical programs to help our patients get more advanced care.

<b>Our Orthopaedic Sub specialty services include : </b>
-> Adult Reconstruction and Joint replacement.
->  Sports Medicine.
->   Spine Surgery.
->   Diagnostic and Therapeutic Arthroscope.
->   Surgery of the Hand and Wrist.
->   Surgery of the Shoulder and Elbow.
->   of the Foot and Ankle.
->  Musculoskeletal Tumor Surgery.
->   Orthopaedic Trauma Surgery.
->  Pediatric Orthopaedics.
->   Trauma Cases.
->   Physical medicine and Rehabilitation.
->   Class 100 theatre available for joint     replacement.
->   Class 100 theatre available for joint     replacement.
->   Back up team intevsivist availabe for trauma patient after surgery.
->   Details of patient available by e-mail on request.
->   Facilities for ilizarov type of operation.
->  Joint Replacement Surgery (Knee, Hip, Shoulder)


ADVANCED LAPAROSCOPIC SURGERY

Advanced Laparoscopic Surgery at Mahajan Super Speciality Hospital is done with utmost care. Our experienced laparoscopic surgeons work dedicatedly in close consultation with referring physicians to match treatment with patient needs and preferences.

We provide excellent consultation, patient evaluation and post-operative follow-up care to see that our patient gets effective treatment and attain good health soon.

We provide excellent treatment for Hernia, Cholecystectomy and so on.


ENDOSCOPIC SINUS SURGERY

Endoscopic Sinus Surgery is performed for the treatment o the nose and sinuses using endoscopes and CT scans. Most of these operations are performed under intense care in our hospital. We take total care of our patients that they well operated without any pain.

Our surgeons operate this surgery very effectively thought the treatment is quite complicated. We are always helping our patients to recover soon and provide our best medical treatments and services to them.


CHRONIC DISEASES


Chronic diseases are the diseases that persist for a long duration and are of slow progression. They last for 3months or more. Chronic diseases such as heart disease, cancer, stroke, chronic respiratory diseases and diabetes are causing 60% of all deaths in the world where half of them are women.

Chronic diseases generally cannot be prevented by vaccines or cured by medication, nor do they just disappear. Chronic diseases are the result due to unhealthy routine such as use of tobacco, lack of physical activity and poor eating habits.Chronic diseases become more frequent with age. The leading chronic disease in various countries around the world includes arthritis, cardiovascular disease such as heart attacks and stroke, cancer such as breast and colon cancer, diabetes, epilepsy and seizures, obesity and other oral health problems.

Mahajan Hospital provides effective and good medication along with latest treatments for chronic diseases. It offers a total state-of-art guideline to the patients and practical suggestions to fight against these diseases effectively.

CARDIAC CENTRE IN PALANPUR

We are one of leading cardic superspeclity hopital and research centre in india, located in the city of ahmedabad. Sanjivani hospital has highly qulified cardiologist or cardio-thoracic surgeon deliver advance surgeries using state of the art facilities give patients the advatage of superior therapies and preventive care for disorders of hte heart and vascular system. Sanjivini hospital cardiac center has a advance digital cath lab with industry standard upto date modern equipment, more than thousands procudure performed in a year. Globally, India emerging as a medical tourism destination, Sanjivani hospital is now global destination of cardiac related desease and treatment.

<b>Our Advance Cath labs are equipped with :</b>
-> Anesthesia Apparatus
->  IABP MACHINE with Doppler
->  High End Ventilator
->  Syringe Pump
->  Cautery Machine
->  Patient Warming system
->  Heart Lung Machine with Heater Cooler
-> 2D Echo, stress test and colour doppler
-> Computerized ECG processing moniter
->  Non-invasive EP testing

<b>Interventional Cardiology :</b>
->  Angograms
-> Percutaneous Coronary Interventions (PTCA, PAMI Programme, Bifurcation , CTO Interventions, IVUS etc.)
->  EP study, RF Ablation & Heart Failure device Therapy (SVT & VT Ablation, AICD implantation, CRT & Combo Therapy etc.)
-> Peripheral Vascular Interventions (Carotid, abdominal Aorta & Lower limb re-vascularization interventions etc.)

<b>Cardio Vascular Thoracic Surgery :</b>
->  Advanced Cardiac Surgical facility for CHD
->  ASD, VSD, PDA, DTGA
-> TOF, DORV
-> Pulmonary Atresia, Tricuspid Atresia, Truncus Arteriosus
-> Valvular heart surgery
-> MV Repair & AV Repair
-> MVR, AVR, DVR
->Coronary surgical revascularization
-> CABG with Valve repair and replacement
-> Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting (CABG)
-> Vascular surgery Interventions



OBSTETRICS & GYNAECOLOGY

<b>Well Women care</b>
Being based at the India’s renowned private Hospital Sanjivani Hospitals provides the full spectrum of women's health care service. Our well woman gynaecology Centre equipped with the best state of the art facilities, provide comprehensive care to the women of all age groups, offer ranges of services such as Antenatal Care, painless deliveries, management of high risk pregnancies/late pregnancies, among others.

Well, a woman’s health is an extremely serious section of any hospitals giving. Right from the youth to physiological conditions, childbirth to biological time, women bear a bunch of health issue which require being addressed from time to time


In Mahajan Hospital's woman gynaecology deliver the best quality problem-solving, surgery and counseling facilities for the good woman. We have well prepared and sophisticated delivery rooms and gynaecology familiar operation theaters with modern facilities, some advanced equipment birth delivery techniques.


<b>Gynaecological Care</b>
-> Family planning & contraception services
-> Menstrual problems, Vaginal Discharge
-> Vulvovaginal services
-> Ovarian Cyst. Myomectomy (Fibroid)
-> Congenital Anomaly. Sling Surgery (Uterine Prolapse)
-> Urogynaecology (Urinary Problems)
->Gynaecologic oncology

<b>Obstetrics Department</b>
->Painless vaginal delivery
-> Cesarean Section (C.S), Dilatation & Evacuation (D & E)
-> High risk pregnancy
-> Fetal Monitioring, antenatal care
-> General Obstetrics

<b>Laparoscopy</b>
-> Diagnostic and operative laparoscopy
-> Total Laparoscopy hystrectomy
-> Laparoscopic myomectomy (fibroid)
->  Laparoscopic endometriosis surgery
->  Advance laparoscopic surgery

<b>Infertility Treatment</b>
-> Male Infertility
-> Female infertility

<b>Sonography</b>
-> Obstertric ultrasound with color doppler
-> Transabdominal sonograhy
-> Transvaginal sonography

TRAUMA CENTRE

Mahajan Hospitals, Palanpur is one of the most progressive, fully armed and have advanced critical care and trauma center in Ahmedabad. Critical care is a decisive medical specialty kind for patients who are disapprovingly ill. It may require provision for insecurity, airway, cardiac arrhythmias, cumulative effects of multiple organ disasters. Patients wanting to concentrate monitoring, like crucial hours after major surgery.

The trauma center is any physical damage to the body that is caused by violence, accidents, drowning, burns and natural disasters, etc. The trauma centre at Sanjivani Hospitals grips the volume to provide comprehensive medical emergency services to patients’ distress from their traumatic injuries.

We have the much-experienced team of specialized surgeons, neurologist, and all other medical professionals for faithful to serve such patients.


PHYSIOTHERAPY CENTRE

Physiotherapy is a health profession concerned with optimizing mobility and function and helping the body heal itself. The physiotherapist does that through use of clinical reasoning to choose and apply appropriate treatment to achieve the desired goal.

Sanjivani Super Speciality Physiotherapy center is well equipped with latest equipments, technology and skilled staff to provide effective treatment for all kind of injuries and pains in Ahmedabad. We offer affordable and timely services for orthopaedic injuries and other major injuries.

At Sanjivani Physiotherapy center we perform a comprehensive evaluation to come to the conclusion for the assessment of the condition and then plan out the specific treatment. We try to locate to the root problem and help you recover in the most natural way without any side-effects.

With our experienced and active team we can manage to provide Physiotherapy treatment for all types of sports injuries, from the initial acute stage immediately after injury until the athlete is ready to return to play.


<b>Facilities<.b>
->Active Physiotherapy
-> Passive Physiotherapy
-> Cardiac Physiotherapy
->Wax Bath
->Ultrasonic Stimulation of nerve
->Feradic Stimulation of nerve
-> Traction

ADVANCED LAPAROSCOPIC SURGERY


Advanced Laparoscopic Surgery at Mahajan Super Speciality Hospital is done with utmost care. Our experienced laparoscopic surgeons work dedicatedly in close consultation with referring physicians to match treatment with patient needs and preferences.

We provide excellent consultation, patient evaluation and post-operative follow-up care to see that our patient gets effective treatment and attain good health soon.

We provide excellent treatment for Hernia, Cholecystectomy and so on.

OTHER FACILITY

-> Backup Generator for Whole Hospital
->In House Laundry
-> Roof Top Cafeteria ( Food )Services with
    -> Indian
    -> Gujarati
    -> Punjabi
    ->Mughalai
    -> Chinese Dishes
->Special feeding advised to ICU Patients by Qualified Dietician
->Separated Parking Plot
->Closed Circuit Camera Monitoring for any Un-toward Activity
-> 5 Beautiful Designed Consulting Rooms for Maximum patient comfort.
->Spacious Waiting Rooms.
-> Well equipped casually for 24 hour Emergency.
-> Pharmacy
->  24 Hours Ambulance Service


<b>Interventional Pain Clinic</b>

-> Clinic run by renonwed aneasthetic Dr. Dipak Desai.
->Treatment for relief from various intractable pain.
->EXP.
    ->Cancer Pain
    -> Nerve Pain
    ->Organ Pain
    ->Pain of spinalcanal stenosis and latrealcanal stenois of spine.
    -> Trigeminal neuralgia.

Treatment done by eminent doctor Dr. Mamtabhomia ablation of internal urinal wall by high tempereture of 87o degree centigrade which is controlled by computer

This is a nonsurgical technique of treating of treating disfunctional utrerine bleeding.


ICCU

 16 Bedded Well Equipped ICCU with Central Station.

 Bed side multi para monitors with invasive pressure monitoring, Infusion pumps, pacemakers.

 ICCU is managed by highly trained doctors.

 Defibrillators, Ultrasonic Nebulisers, Bed side oxygen,

 Vaccum, Air Lines.

 4 Bedded Separate Post Operative Cardiac CCU.

 All Beds equipped with Multi Para Monitors with

 ECG

 SPO2

 NIBP

 RESP

 Invagive BP

 Temperature

 2nd Invasive Line

 10 State of art ventilators.

 Intra Aortic Balloon Pump.

 Bedside Digital X- Rays.

 Defibrillator (BPL)

 Ultrasonic nebulizer.

 Bedside Oxygen, Vacuum Line.

 Capnography Monitor Available.

 Muscle Pulsator To Prevent DVT.

 Facility For Bedside Dialysis.

 Special Air Beds .

 Availability of Pacemaker.

 Infusion Pumps----Syringe Pumps, Volumetric Pumps.

 Latest Crasn Carts.

 BIPAP ventilators Available.

 2 Beds to 1 Nurse Ratio.

 ICCU Managed Round the Clock by Qualified Intensivists.

 Diet Planned By Qualified Dietician.

 Multiple Parameter central Station.




 CT SCAN

Mahajan Hospital also provides facilities like CT Scan and ultrasound and using modern technologies like:

Sub second spiral scanning

 World’s slimmest gantry design

 Rapid scanning facility with reconstruction facility

 3-D reconstruction

 Virtual Endoscopy, Bronchoscopy reconstruction facility


 IN HOUSE PHARMACY

 Mahajan Hospital has a 24x7 in house pharmacy within hospital premises which provides round-the-clock service to inpatients and also to the patients who are coming into the hospital on an outpatient basis.

 The pharmacy is stocked with critical life saving medicines and surgical products as also routine prescription drugs.

 The pharmacy is equipped with the optimum inventory of the medicines which ensures the availability of all the medicines prescribed by the Doctors. The trained professionals in the pharmacy help our patients for the better care and advices in taking medicines. Utmost care is taken in dispensing medicines and also in giving advices to the patients and hence the pharmacy at our becomes the best.

 DIALYSIS

 3 Latest Dialysis Machine (Nipro manufactured).

 Doing Dialysis in ---- CRF , ARF Patients.

 Doing SLED in Critically ill Patients

 Separate Double RO Filtration Plant of Dialysis Water.

 Round The Clock Availability of Dialysis Technician.

 Bed Side Multi-Para Monitors Available in Dialysis Department.

 Water usedine dialysis is

 Bacteria Free

 Zero TDs

 Periodically cultures clone for removing contamination



 CENTRAL STERILIZATION

2 ETO Sterilization (Working On Cartridge).

 2 Horizontal Steam Sterilizers (Dry Sterilization).

 Graphical Record of Sterilization Cycle.

 2 Vertical Sterilisers.

 Dedicated Staff of 3 Workers Trained in this Department.

 Regular Record Keeping Of Sterilisation Cycle.

 Regular Check of Cultured Samples and Machine.

 This is niline with the best in industry.

 Department has two horizontal sterilizer two vertical sterilizer.

 Latest E.T.O sterilizer in, which ethilon oxide canister is used.

 Special indicator strips check all steam starilization and E.T.O. starilization.

 For steam stabilization pie graph is done for each cycle which measure. The temperature and pressure of each cycle.

 Senior microbiologist studies all the graphs and cycles are repeated if failure is observed.

 Zero infection per operation is noted since last


 THEATRE

 3 State of Art Operation Theatre.

 Theatre with class 100 laminar air flow facility.

 Theatre equipped with boyles Anasthesia Machine. Ventilators, Cauteries, Heart Lung Machine, ABG Machine, Invasive Monitors.

 GI Surgery

 Neurosurgery

 All General Surgery

 Urosurgery

 Plastic Surgery

 Peadiatric Surgery

 ENT Surgery

 Unco Surgery

 Special Gynec and Obesity Facilities

 Temperature

 Painless Labour

 High Risk Pregnancy

 Infertility

 All Laproscopic Procedures

 2 Theatres has Laminar Air Flow System.

 All Theatres are Equipped with

 2 Vertical Sterilisers.

 Latest Anesthesia Trolley with Ventilators.

 LED Light.

 Cutlery.

 ABG Machines.

 Multi-Para Monitors available in all OTs.

 Availability of defibrillator.

 Balloon Pump..

 Laparoscopy Set With Camera And all Instruments available (WOLF).

 2 Operating Microscopes.

 Sensara 7 For.

 Neurosurgery.

 ENT.

 Plastic.

 Vascular.

 Special Air Beds .

 OPMI1 FR For Ophthalmic Surgery.

 SAARNS-8000 , SAARNS-7000 - Both available for Cardiac Procedures.

 Hemotherm available in Cardiac OT.

 Facility of Thermachoice for Gynae Patients (Till now carried out more than 600 Procedures).

 Facility of Office Hysteroscopy & Colposcope.

 Special Software & Hardware for Recording Procedures.

 9 Inch Digital IITV.

 Thermachoice Machine for Uterine Ablation (Maximum Procedures done in City).

 Facility for

 Upper GI Endoscopy.

 Colonoscopy.

 Side Viewing Scope Used For ERCP.

 Specialised Equipment for Advanced NeuroSurgery.

 Facility for Office Hysteroscopy.

 Ultramodern A/C Labour Room with Systems of Fetal Monitoring.


 ROOMS
 Deluxe Rooms

Average Area 180 sq. ft/Room with facilities

 A/C

 Attached Bathroom

 Fridge

 Cable TV

 Channel/Music

 Telephone

 Nurse Calling System

 Pantry

 Dedicated Nursing Staff and a Doctor for Deluxe Rooms

Special Room

Average Area-150Sq f/Room with facilities

 A/C

 Attached Bathroom

 Cable TV

 Channel/Music

 Nurse Calling System

 Dedicated Nursing Staff and a Doctor for Deluxe Rooms

 5 Patients per 1 Nurse Ratio

Semi Special Room (Twin Sharing)

Average Area - 170Sq f/Room with facilities

 A/C Optional

 Attached Bathroom

 Cable TV

 Channel/Music

 Telephone

 Nurse Calling System

General Ward

 A/C Optional

 3 to 4 Patients /Room

 Cable TV

 Telephone

 Nurse Calling System

All Rooms Have Pipe Oxygen And Vacuum

Consulting Room

Beautifully Designed 5 Consulting Rooms with waiting area for 50 Patients


PATHOLOGY
With Round the Clock Service and Fully Equipped with

 Cell Counter (Trans Asia)

 ABG Machine (Trans Asia)

 Coagulometer (Trans Asia)

 Electrolyte Machine (Roche)

 Chemistry -----Trans Asia , Abott

 ELISA

 Microbiology

 Sophisticated Microscope

 Specialised Technique For Coding Samples

 Vacutainer for sample collection

 Regular Updates and Checks For Quality Control

 Tie-Up with Centers of Excellence for Maintaining Quality.

 24hrs Facility

 Home visit Available


RADIOLOGY

Digital X-Ray (Fuji)

 2 Ultrasound Machines (GE)

 Echo, Doppler Machine (GE- Vivid -3 Series)

 Tread Mill Machine—(Marquette)— (TMT)

 EMG, NCV Study Machine (RMS)

 Digital EEG (RMS)

 Automatic 3 Channel ECG Machine

 Computerised ECG

 Pulmonary Function Test Machine


 CATH LAB

 Latest Version of Cath Lab Facility for providing

 Coronary Angiography

 Coronary Angioplasty

 Peripheral Angiography

 Balloon Mitral Valvotomy

 Temporary & Permanent ( Single & Dual Chamber )

 Device Closure of ASD & VSD

 Electro Physiological Studies

 Implantation of Automated Defibrillator

 Peripheral Angioplasty

 Procedures Done By - Femoral - Radial - Route

 Round the Clock Services of Cath lab

 